---
layout: default
title: details
---

## Class Format

[Berkeley CS Course Page](https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Courses/CS160/)

In Fall 2017 we will be aiming accommodate around 100 students. Lectures will
be held Monday and Wednesday, 11:00am-12:30pm in Jacobs 310. There will be
sections as well once a week. There will be a midterm. There will not be a
final exam (ignore any conflicts you have with final exams). We will have a
final critique during RRR week (date and time TBD). You must attend the final
critique. Please try to attend all the lectures, including the first one.
Enrollment will use the standard policy for computer science upper division
courses and will not use a separate application process. We will take people
off the waitlist in waitlist order.

During the first half of the semester class time will be used for lectures and
workshops focusing on core HCI techniques and material, leading to a midterm
exam. During the second half of the semester, students will break into smaller
groups (~4 students). Within these smaller teams, students will work on a
larger scale design project using the three hours of class time as work
sessions, critique time, and for direct interaction with faculty and teaching
staff. Students will be expected to attend these studios. A final project
critique and public showcase on Dec. 6-7 (exact time TBD) will replace a final
exam. Attendance at the final project presentation is mandatory—block that out
in your schedule.

Note that the much of the work in this course is conducted in the form of a
group project during the second half of the semester. Unlike other courses,
dropping the course before the end of the semester has negative consequences
for your other group members. Once you have joined a group please make sure you
are committed to staying in the course.

## Sections ~ Studios

Sections will function as Studios—a consistent TA that grades your work
throughout the semester and group of students to get feedback from. You will
need to attend the Studio section that you are scheduled in, and project teams
will form within each Studio. Transfers among sections must be approved by the
teaching team.

## Project Theme

The theme of this semester’s projects will be “Bursting Echo Chambers in Social
Media”. We will be developing web-based applications (either on mobile or
desktop) to enable people encounter more diverse information through social
media. Another aspect of our theme is to encourage more constructive
conversation or interaction among differing perspectives through social media.
We will be leveraging the [Graph API](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/graph-api/)
and other developer tools that Facebook offers https://developers.facebook.com/
to enable connecting with the user data that’s available within Facebook. While
students are free to connect with other social media services, we will only be
providing guidance on the Facebook APIs.

## Prerequisites

CS160 is an upper division course, and one of few where you will work
extensively on one significant programming project. To participate fully in
this course, you are required to have taken CS61B or have equivalent knowledge.
We will assume that you are familiar with Java and are comfortable coding a
large-scale project. While you can choose to code in any platform that you and
your team agree, we will only be providing training and technical support for
the Facebook APIs.

## Texts and Readings

There is no textbook for the course. Online readings will be available before
each class. You are expected to read the assigned readings and post a
substantive reading response before class. Late comments will NOT be given
credit. There will be plenty of opportunities in class and in the assignments
to apply that knowledge and in-class participation will be part of your grade.

## Assignments

There will be both individual assignments and project assignments. Individual
assignments (including some programming assignments) will be done by each
student; their main goal is to teach you the skills needed to successfully
execute on your project.

Project assignments will be done in groups. You will be expected to turn in
written documentation at each stage of your project. You will also turn in
working code. Each group member must participate in giving an oral presentation
about your project. Most assignments will be turned in online through bCourses.

## Attendance

You are encouraged to attend all of the lectures and a weekly discussion
section. We expect to do many in-class, group activities which cannot be made
up if you miss class.  Furthermore, class and section attendance is part of the
class participation grade. Feel free to contact the teaching staff in advance
to discuss any issues that arise affecting your attendance.

There are several mandatory class sessions identified in the syllabus: Midterm,
grading sessions in class, final critique during RRR week (date and time TBD),
and Final Presentation that is part of the Berkeley Design Showcase (Dec. 6-7).
We may identify other required attendance dates in advance.  Please plan
accordingly and do not miss these classes. Due to the size of the class, we
won't be "catching up" students on missed assignments or details. It is your
responsibility to obtain that information from fellow classmates.

## Conduct

Cheating is not acceptable. All incidents will incur penalties in the course
and will be reported to the Center for Student Conduct. Please take time to
view the UC Berkeley Student [Code of Conduct][conduct] and the UC Berkeley
[Honor Code][honor].
Forms of cheating include distributing or posting assignments or midterm
questions outside of the class, or using such materials. Other forms of
violation are described [here][others].

[conduct]:http://sa.berkeley.edu/code-of-conduct
[honor]:http://teaching.berkeley.edu/berkeley-honor-code
[others]:http://sa.berkeley.edu/conduct/faculty-staff/violations

You will also need to work directly with potential users to evaluate your
ideas. You must deal with these potential users professionally and
respectfully. We will cover this is lecture, but make sure you let them know
what to expect in terms of activities to do and time required (and allow them
to opt out during the process), respect their time, and respect their privacy
regarding any information that they share with you.

## Acknowledgements

The lectures, format and syllabus of this class are based on HCI classes taught
by Eric Paulos, Bjoern Hartmann, Andy Carle, Jodi Forlizzi, John Zimmerman,
Haakon Faste, Ben Bederson, Maneesh Agrawala, Scott Klemmer, Francois
Guimbretiere, Marti Hearst, Michael Bernstein, and James Landay. These authors
have kindly provided access to their lecture slides and my own slides borrow
from their earlier work.

